docs/backends/openid.rst, before:

OpenId
======

OpenId_ support is simpler to implement than OAuth_. Google and Yahoo
providers are supported by default, others are supported by POST method
providing endpoint URL.

OpenId_ backends can store extra data in ``UserSocialAuth.extra_data`` field
by defining a set of values names to retrieve from any of the used schemas,
AttributeExchange and SimpleRegistration. As their keywords differ we need
two settings.

Settings is per backend, so we have two possible values for each one. Name
is dynamically checked using uppercase backend name as prefix::

    SOCIAL_AUTH_<uppercase backend name>_SREG_EXTRA_DATA
    SOCIAL_AUTH_<uppercase backend name>_AX_EXTRA_DATA

Example::

    SOCIAL_AUTH_GOOGLE_SREG_EXTRA_DATA = [(..., ...)]
    SOCIAL_AUTH_GOOGLE_AX_EXTRA_DATA = [(..., ...)]

Settings must be a list of tuples mapping value name in response and value
alias used to store. A third value (boolean) is supported to, it's purpose is
to signal if the value should be discarded if it evaluates to ``False``, this
is to avoid replacing old (needed) values when they don't form part of current
response. If not present, then this check is avoided and the value will replace
any data.

.. _OpenId: http://openid.net/
.. _OAuth: http://oauth.net/

Commit message:

Option for open id providers to specify the username key in the values

docs/backends/openid.rst, after:

OpenId
======

OpenId_ support is simpler to implement than OAuth_. Google and Yahoo
providers are supported by default, others are supported by POST method
providing endpoint URL.

OpenId_ backends can store extra data in ``UserSocialAuth.extra_data`` field
by defining a set of values names to retrieve from any of the used schemas,
AttributeExchange and SimpleRegistration. As their keywords differ we need
two settings.

Settings is per backend, so we have two possible values for each one. Name
is dynamically checked using uppercase backend name as prefix::

    SOCIAL_AUTH_<uppercase backend name>_SREG_EXTRA_DATA
    SOCIAL_AUTH_<uppercase backend name>_AX_EXTRA_DATA

Example::

    SOCIAL_AUTH_GOOGLE_SREG_EXTRA_DATA = [(..., ...)]
    SOCIAL_AUTH_GOOGLE_AX_EXTRA_DATA = [(..., ...)]

Settings must be a list of tuples mapping value name in response and value
alias used to store. A third value (boolean) is supported to, it's purpose is
to signal if the value should be discarded if it evaluates to ``False``, this
is to avoid replacing old (needed) values when they don't form part of current
response. If not present, then this check is avoided and the value will replace
any data.

Username
--------

The OpenId_ backend will check for a ``username`` key in the values returned by
the server, but default to ``first-name`` + ``last-name`` if that key is
missing. It's possible to indicate the username key in the values If the
username is under a different key with a setting, but backends should have
defined a default value. For example::

    SOCIAL_AUTH_FEDORA_USERNAME_KEY = 'nickname'

This setting indicates that the username should be populated by the
``nickname`` value in the Fedora OpenId_ provider.

.. _OpenId: http://openid.net/
.. _OAuth: http://oauth.net/
