README.rst, before:

Python Social Auth
==================

Python Social Auth is an easy to setup social authentication/registration
mechanism with support for several frameworks and auth providers.

Crafted using base code from django-social-auth, implements a common interface
to define new authentication providers from third parties. And to bring support
for more frameworks and ORMs.

.. contents:: Table of Contents


Features
========

This application provides user registration and login using social sites
credentials, here are some features, probably not a full list yet.


Supported frameworks
--------------------

Multiple frameworks support:

    * Django_
    * Flask_
    * Webpy_

More frameworks can be added easily (and should be even easier in the future
once the code matures).


Auth providers
--------------

Several supported service by simple backends definition (easy to add new ones
or extend current one):

    * Angel_ OAuth2
    * Behance_ OAuth2
    * Bitbucket_ OAuth1
    * Dailymotion_ OAuth2
    * Disqus_ OAuth2
    * Douban_ OAuth1 and OAuth2
    * Dropbox_ OAuth1
    * Evernote_ OAuth1
    * Facebook_ OAuth2 and OAuth2 for Applications
    * Fitbit_ OAuth1
    * Flickr_ OAuth1
    * Foursquare_ OAuth2
    * `Google App Engine`_ Auth
    * Github_ OAuth2
    * Google_ OAuth1, OAuth2 and OpenId
    * Instagram_ OAuth2
    * Linkedin_ OAuth1
    * Live_ OAuth2
    * Livejournal_ OpenId
    * Mailru_ OAuth2
    * Mixcloud_ OAuth2
    * `Mozilla Persona`_
    * Odnoklassniki_ OAuth2 and Application Auth
    * OpenId_
    * Orkut_ OAuth1
    * Rdio_ OAuth1 and OAuth2
    * Readability_ OAuth1
    * Shopify_ OAuth2
    * Skyrock_ OAuth1
    * Soundcloud_ OAuth2
    * Stackoverflow_ OAuth2
    * Steam_ OpenId
    * Stocktwits_ OAuth2
    * Stripe_ OAuth2
    * Tripit_ OAuth1
    * Tumblr_ OAuth1
    * Twilio_ Auth
    * Twitter_ OAuth1
    * Vkontakte_ OpenAPI, OAuth2 and OAuth2 for Applications
    * Weibo_ OAuth2
    * Xing_ OAuth1
    * Yahoo_ OpenId and OAuth1
    * Yammer_ OAuth2
    * Yandex_ OAuth1, OAuth2 and OpenId


User data
---------

Basic user data population, to allows custom fields values from providers
response.


Social accounts association
---------------------------

Multiple social accounts can be associated to a single user.


Authentication processing
-------------------------

Extensible pipeline to handle authentication/association mechanism in ways that
suits your project.


Dependencies
============

Dependencies that **must** be meet to use the application:

- OpenId_ support depends on python-openid_

- OAuth_ support depends on python-oauth2_ (despite the name, this is just for
  OAuth1)

- Several backends demands application registration on their corresponding
  sites and other dependencies like sqlalchemy_ on Flask and Webpy.


Installation
============

From pypi_::

    $ pip install python-social-auth

Or::

    $ easy_install python-social-auth

Or clone from github_::

    $ git clone git://github.com/omab/python-social-auth.git

And add social to ``PYTHONPATH``::

    $ export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$(pwd)/python-social-auth/

Or::

    $ cd python-social-auth
    $ sudo python setup.py install



Copyrights and Licence
======================

``python-social-auth`` is protected by BSD licence. Check the LICENCE_ for
details.

The base work was derived from django-social-auth_ work and copyrighted too,
check `django-social-auth LICENCE`_ for details:

.. _LICENCE: https://github.com/omab/python-social-auth/blob/master/LICENSE
.. _django-social-auth: https://github.com/omab/django-social-auth
.. _django-social-auth LICENCE: https://github.com/omab/django-social-auth/blob/master/LICENSE
.. _OpenId: http://openid.net/
.. _OAuth: http://oauth.net/
.. _myOpenID: https://www.myopenid.com/
.. _Angel: https://angel.co
.. _Behance: https://www.behance.net
.. _Bitbucket: https://bitbucket.org
.. _Dailymotion: https://dailymotion.com
.. _Disqus: https://disqus.com
.. _Douban: http://www.douban.com
.. _Dropbox: https://dropbox.com
.. _Evernote: https://www.evernote.com
.. _Facebook: https://www.facebook.com
.. _Fitbit: https://fitbit.com
.. _Flickr: http://www.flickr.com
.. _Foursquare: https://foursquare.com
.. _Google App Engine: https://developers.google.com/appengine/
.. _Github: https://github.com
.. _Google: http://google.com
.. _Instagram: https://instagram.com
.. _Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com
.. _Live: https://live.com
.. _Livejournal: http://livejournal.com
.. _Mailru: https://mail.ru
.. _Mixcloud: https://www.mixcloud.com
.. _Mozilla Persona: http://www.mozilla.org/persona/
.. _Odnoklassniki: http://www.odnoklassniki.ru
.. _Orkut: http://www.orkut.com
.. _Shopify: http://shopify.com
.. _Skyrock: https://skyrock.com
.. _Soundcloud: https://soundcloud.com
.. _Stocktwits: https://stocktwits.com
.. _Stripe: https://stripe.com
.. _Tripit: https://www.tripit.com
.. _Twilio: https://www.twilio.com
.. _Twitter: http://twitter.com
.. _Vkontakte: http://vk.com
.. _Weibo: https://weibo.com
.. _Xing: https://www.xing.com
.. _Yahoo: http://yahoo.com
.. _Yammer: https://www.yammer.com
.. _Yandex: https://yandex.ru
.. _Readability: http://www.readability.com/
.. _Stackoverflow: http://stackoverflow.com/
.. _Steam: http://steamcommunity.com/
.. _Rdio: https://www.rdio.com
.. _Tumblr: http://www.tumblr.com/
.. _Django: https://github.com/omab/python-social-auth/tree/master/social/apps/django_app
.. _Flask: https://github.com/omab/python-social-auth/tree/master/social/apps/flask_app
.. _Webpy: https://github.com/omab/python-social-auth/tree/master/social/apps/webpy_app
.. _python-openid: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-openid/
.. _python-oauth2: https://github.com/simplegeo/python-oauth2
.. _sqlalchemy: http://www.sqlalchemy.org/
.. _pypi: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-social-auth/

Commit message:

Link to project homepage and docs

README.rst, after:

Python Social Auth
==================

Python Social Auth is an easy to setup social authentication/registration
mechanism with support for several frameworks and auth providers.

Crafted using base code from django-social-auth, implements a common interface
to define new authentication providers from third parties. And to bring support
for more frameworks and ORMs.

.. contents:: Table of Contents


Features
========

This application provides user registration and login using social sites
credentials, here are some features, probably not a full list yet.


Supported frameworks
--------------------

Multiple frameworks support:

    * Django_
    * Flask_
    * Webpy_

More frameworks can be added easily (and should be even easier in the future
once the code matures).


Auth providers
--------------

Several supported service by simple backends definition (easy to add new ones
or extend current one):

    * Angel_ OAuth2
    * Behance_ OAuth2
    * Bitbucket_ OAuth1
    * Dailymotion_ OAuth2
    * Disqus_ OAuth2
    * Douban_ OAuth1 and OAuth2
    * Dropbox_ OAuth1
    * Evernote_ OAuth1
    * Facebook_ OAuth2 and OAuth2 for Applications
    * Fitbit_ OAuth1
    * Flickr_ OAuth1
    * Foursquare_ OAuth2
    * `Google App Engine`_ Auth
    * Github_ OAuth2
    * Google_ OAuth1, OAuth2 and OpenId
    * Instagram_ OAuth2
    * Linkedin_ OAuth1
    * Live_ OAuth2
    * Livejournal_ OpenId
    * Mailru_ OAuth2
    * Mixcloud_ OAuth2
    * `Mozilla Persona`_
    * Odnoklassniki_ OAuth2 and Application Auth
    * OpenId_
    * Orkut_ OAuth1
    * Rdio_ OAuth1 and OAuth2
    * Readability_ OAuth1
    * Shopify_ OAuth2
    * Skyrock_ OAuth1
    * Soundcloud_ OAuth2
    * Stackoverflow_ OAuth2
    * Steam_ OpenId
    * Stocktwits_ OAuth2
    * Stripe_ OAuth2
    * Tripit_ OAuth1
    * Tumblr_ OAuth1
    * Twilio_ Auth
    * Twitter_ OAuth1
    * Vkontakte_ OpenAPI, OAuth2 and OAuth2 for Applications
    * Weibo_ OAuth2
    * Xing_ OAuth1
    * Yahoo_ OpenId and OAuth1
    * Yammer_ OAuth2
    * Yandex_ OAuth1, OAuth2 and OpenId


User data
---------

Basic user data population, to allows custom fields values from providers
response.


Social accounts association
---------------------------

Multiple social accounts can be associated to a single user.


Authentication processing
-------------------------

Extensible pipeline to handle authentication/association mechanism in ways that
suits your project.


Dependencies
============

Dependencies that **must** be meet to use the application:

- OpenId_ support depends on python-openid_

- OAuth_ support depends on python-oauth2_ (despite the name, this is just for
  OAuth1)

- Several backends demands application registration on their corresponding
  sites and other dependencies like sqlalchemy_ on Flask and Webpy.


Documents
=========

Project homepage is available at http://psa.matiasaguirre.net/ and documents at
http://psa.matiasaguirre.net/docs/.


Installation
============

From pypi_::

    $ pip install python-social-auth

Or::

    $ easy_install python-social-auth

Or clone from github_::

    $ git clone git://github.com/omab/python-social-auth.git

And add social to ``PYTHONPATH``::

    $ export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$(pwd)/python-social-auth/

Or::

    $ cd python-social-auth
    $ sudo python setup.py install


Copyrights and Licence
======================

``python-social-auth`` is protected by BSD licence. Check the LICENCE_ for
details.

The base work was derived from django-social-auth_ work and copyrighted too,
check `django-social-auth LICENCE`_ for details:

.. _LICENCE: https://github.com/omab/python-social-auth/blob/master/LICENSE
.. _django-social-auth: https://github.com/omab/django-social-auth
.. _django-social-auth LICENCE: https://github.com/omab/django-social-auth/blob/master/LICENSE
.. _OpenId: http://openid.net/
.. _OAuth: http://oauth.net/
.. _myOpenID: https://www.myopenid.com/
.. _Angel: https://angel.co
.. _Behance: https://www.behance.net
.. _Bitbucket: https://bitbucket.org
.. _Dailymotion: https://dailymotion.com
.. _Disqus: https://disqus.com
.. _Douban: http://www.douban.com
.. _Dropbox: https://dropbox.com
.. _Evernote: https://www.evernote.com
.. _Facebook: https://www.facebook.com
.. _Fitbit: https://fitbit.com
.. _Flickr: http://www.flickr.com
.. _Foursquare: https://foursquare.com
.. _Google App Engine: https://developers.google.com/appengine/
.. _Github: https://github.com
.. _Google: http://google.com
.. _Instagram: https://instagram.com
.. _Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com
.. _Live: https://live.com
.. _Livejournal: http://livejournal.com
.. _Mailru: https://mail.ru
.. _Mixcloud: https://www.mixcloud.com
.. _Mozilla Persona: http://www.mozilla.org/persona/
.. _Odnoklassniki: http://www.odnoklassniki.ru
.. _Orkut: http://www.orkut.com
.. _Shopify: http://shopify.com
.. _Skyrock: https://skyrock.com
.. _Soundcloud: https://soundcloud.com
.. _Stocktwits: https://stocktwits.com
.. _Stripe: https://stripe.com
.. _Tripit: https://www.tripit.com
.. _Twilio: https://www.twilio.com
.. _Twitter: http://twitter.com
.. _Vkontakte: http://vk.com
.. _Weibo: https://weibo.com
.. _Xing: https://www.xing.com
.. _Yahoo: http://yahoo.com
.. _Yammer: https://www.yammer.com
.. _Yandex: https://yandex.ru
.. _Readability: http://www.readability.com/
.. _Stackoverflow: http://stackoverflow.com/
.. _Steam: http://steamcommunity.com/
.. _Rdio: https://www.rdio.com
.. _Tumblr: http://www.tumblr.com/
.. _Django: https://github.com/omab/python-social-auth/tree/master/social/apps/django_app
.. _Flask: https://github.com/omab/python-social-auth/tree/master/social/apps/flask_app
.. _Webpy: https://github.com/omab/python-social-auth/tree/master/social/apps/webpy_app
.. _python-openid: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-openid/
.. _python-oauth2: https://github.com/simplegeo/python-oauth2
.. _sqlalchemy: http://www.sqlalchemy.org/
.. _pypi: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-social-auth/
